# Stroke-Prediction-

A Stroke is a health condition that causes damage by tearing the blood vessels in the brain. It can also occur when there is a halt in the blood flow and other nutrientsto the brain.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), stroke is the leading cause of death and disability globally. Most of the work has been carried out on the prediction of heart stroke but very few works show the risk of a brain stroke. With this thought, various machine learning models are built to predict the possibility of stroke in the brain. This paper has taken various physiological factors and used machine learning algorithms like Logistic Regression, Decision Tree Classification, Random Forest Classification, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine and Na誰ve Bayes Classification to train five different models for accurate prediction. The algorithm that best performed this task is Na誰ve Bayes that gave an accuracy of approximately 82%

Stroke is a critical medical condition that should be treated before it worsens. Building a machine learning model can help in the early prediction of stroke and reduce the severe impact of the future. This paper shows the performance of various machine learning algorithms in successfully predicting stroke based on multiple physiological attributes. Out of all the algorithms chosen, Na誰ve Bayes Classification performs best with an accuracy of 82%. The comparison of accuracies obtained from various algorithms.Among all the precision, recall and F1 scores obtained, Na誰ve Bayes has performed better. The comparison of Precision score, recall score and F1 score.
